how did you front brake pads on the 2005
silverado chevy 1500 4.3 vortec long
good so at my jack underneath the
control arm raised up i got about two
inches off the ground from tire off the
round about the lugs all loosened on the
ground that when Eternals been anything
like that I got my brake pads already I
got the medium gray brake pads because
they offer you like four or five choices
and you know Louis being 22 they got a
36 about 36 all the way to in the 60s
I'm sure they have ceramic ones own you
go for a lot more but uh especially if
you have rotor damage if you've got any
scarring on the road you want to go with
ceramics because you want that to buff
out over time and your regular crappy
brake pads will fix up so I'm going to
medium gray brake pads take off the tie
and see how bad the pads are all right I
got the two bolts ever one goes here and
one goes here off and there are three
quarters and so now it's it's the bolts
are on the route and it should just pop
right off but you're going to have a
little problems because it goes a clip
holding that um and so now we need to
kind of gently for angle this off the
best we can and the best way is to
gently tap with a hammer around here
here here and kind of that way so I'm
gonna do that alright remove the caliper
have it sitting up there try not pinch
the wine too much and these just slide
out this way you got a screwdriver fly
head that makes a lot easier if you
don't you're screwed nothing so i'ma
slide these out easy flathead
screwdriver in a second yeah work with a
moment then I'll put my new ones own
see the difference between brake pads or
one new one these are more than half and
the other side is more and more and so
kind of replacement you can see the
difference in the back ones a lot more
long and it's kind of corroded there's a
difference between the inside pad and
the outside pad and that difference is
there's this big metal not bidding but
the metal pat on the back keep him
cracking easier because it's got the
Pistons pushing against it and it's
bigger surface area to if you look at
the so I'm sure your new if you look at
the other side one does it has a swoop
here this one doesn't it's flat it's
metal it's a little more sturdier put
that on next all right both brake pads
are installed and on Chevy's it's really
easy they just kind of slide in place in
the caliper fits over and the caliper
holds it in place and the analytical
force of the road of spinning around
keeps him from grabbing so basically
what I'm gonna do here is the caliper
itself the Pistons have to be put back
in a little bit because the break guys
are bigger for one thing and also
because they do come out if you leave
them out so what we're going to do here
is we're going to take a c-clamp first
want to take the old brake pads you want
to do this is a nice pad we're put it on
top like that we're going to put a clamp
there and just clamp it down until
probably one side at a time and then
we'll be good put them back inside
themselves and then we'll put all back
together we good see here I just have my
giant nine-inch six-inch c-clamp right
there and I'm tighten it up and those
Pistons are going back into place it's
I'll just get them about flush and then
put oil all right we got the brake
caliper back in place and the bolts are
not in right now here they are and I got
a little bit of Loctite blue which is
the medium red loctite and I just went a
little bit on the threads he's put a
little drop there and it's going to work
its way around every once you twist them
and it's a little bit
I'm gonna go crazy about it just gently
tighten the man they find the holes no
maybe like so there we go then I'll do
the one down here in the bottom then
I'll tighten up a 4-inch lock tight is
good because bolts yeah I'm specially
breaks they can work their way out and
you don't want to be in that situation
all the tire will keep the caliper
around the tire but it'll probably not
be as effective breaking all right
basically done here just got the tire
back on we'll do the other side exactly
the same so I'll put tire back on put
the nuts back on tighten them up snug
them up before I drop jack then I won't
totally tighten them up but my hub space
our own not home spacer cap anyway hope
this video helps people but of course
it's you know it's simple Chevy anyway
it's pretty easy a forger little more
difficult you got to pinch some pins
together and stuff like that